# 2024 - Detection and segmentation of locomotor cycle in mice movement using processed data from marker-based 3D motion capture on voluntary treadmill running

## General idea
Master's thesis developed during a Research Internship at Okinawa Isntitute of Science and Technology

## Abstract
Locomotion and the central nervous system are connected through a mapping that can be identified by analyzing the movement of an animal. By studying a complex and articulated movement produced by the coordination of the whole body of a mouse, distinct repetitions of circular patterns representing different types of gaits can be observed. This research aims to detect and isolate these patterns, called "Unitary Movements". To achieve this, we process data collected from 10 different parts of a mouse’s body using 3D markers and state-of-the-art motion capture technology specifically adjusted for mice. The acquisition of high-quality mice locomotion data makes a significant contribution to the existing literature. Additionally, the 30-dimensional trajectory of the mouse body serves as the input for an innovative method to extract unitary movements, utilizing a sophisticated Recurrence Quantification Analysis. Furthermore, the study includes a decomposition analysis of the movement using Principal Component Analysis to enhance the understanding of the changes in body configuration during locomotion. My contributions to this work include essential data processing tasks such as labeling and gap-filling the motion capture data. To determine a threshold for an accurate and automatic application of delay embedding techniques, I proposed and implemented a vision-based method to compute optimum delay embedding parameter by quantifying the unfolding of the underlying attractor. Finally, I manipulated raw data to create a portable, efficient, and user-friendly visualization tool that will also be useful for future studies on mice and other animals.
